---
title: June 2025
month: 2025-06
---

# June 2025 - Monthly Update

Here’s what’s new and improved in the Vivid Design System for June 2025.

## Office Hours Meetings

**10/06/2025**: [Watch the recording](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1uN9YBPuviRAPoArBJljxrxC-eTPGZuXJ/view)

- [Data Grid]: Spacing between the text and sort filter.
- [Typography tokens]: Question on the typography tokens for heading. There is a desire to use heading level size as the size for the H3.

**24/06/2025**: [Watch the recording](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1ZMjNfEQjk9e1_jzn-b3EPv-gPh_muSI_/view)

- [Data Grid]: Support for filters
- [Tags]: Light appearance & selected state
- [Searchable Select]: Select all options support

## Icon: Adds label attribute for better accessibility

We have added the [`label` attribute](/components/icon/code/#label) to provide a description for [informative icons](/components/icon/accessibility/#informative-vs-decorative-icons). This replacces the previous recommendation to use `aria-label` as that is not read out by all screen readers.

## Accordion Item: Adds new header and meta slots for additional flexibility

We have added [slots for the `heading` and `meta`](/components/accordion/code/#heading-slot) areas of Accordion Item to allow formatting of text and great flexibility than the text-only attribute equivilents.

## Badge: Adds size attribute and expanded variant

We have added the [`size` attribute](/components/badge/#size) to the Badge component which allow you to set it to be `expanded` which can be used when [align with super-condensed buttons](/components/badge/use-cases/#usage-with-buttons).

## Card: Adds button and link functionality

The Card component can now be made [clickable, either as a link or a button](/components/card/#clickable-cards).

## Avatar: Adds button and link functionality

The Avatar component can now be made [clickable, either as a link or a button](/components/avatar/#clickable-avatar).

## Dialog: Adds scrollable body support

You can now set the [`scrollable-body` attribute](components/dialog/#scrollable-body) to make only the content area between the header and footer scrollable (instead of a whole dialog).

## Dialog: Adds CSS variables to allow control of the Dialog's placement

Use the [inset CSS variables](/components/dialog/code/#inset) to allow control of the placement of a nono-modal dialog.

## Radio Group: Adds helper text and error text

We brought Radio Group inline with our other form elements by adding [`helper-text`](/components/radio-group/#helper-text) and [`error-text`](/components/radio-group/#error-text) attributes and slot (in the case of `helper-text`).

## Dial Pad: Adds focus method and autofocus attribute

You now have more control of the focus state of Dial Pad as we have add a `focus` method and `autofocus` attribute.
