---
title: June 2024
month: 2024-06
---

# June 2024 - Monthly Update

## Office Hours Meetings

**11/06/2024**

Cancelled due to holiday

**25/06/2024**

[Watch the recording](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1IcJHdgL7KazZNETcoqPMoGrdbF7otRlL/view)

- Shared value and contributions discussion - 0:29

## Major Release: v4.0.0

We have released a new major version of Vivid. The release contains a number of small breaking changes which are detailed in the [migration guide](/guides/v4-release-migration/).

## ESLint Plugin for Vivid

Along with the new version, we have released a new [Vivid ESLint plugin](/guides/eslint-plugin/) which extends ESLint to catch issues specific to Vivid Vue projects.

The plugin can help to:

- Catch issues like accessibility violations.
- Guide towards best practices and correct usage.
- Detect use of deprecated APIs and provide automated fixes.

## Improved Event Typing and Documentation

In response to some feedback given in the Office Hours meeetings, the events our components emit are now more strongly typed and they are all now documented on the relevant component pages. [Example](/components/pagination/#events)

## Button: New outlined-light Appearance

The [Button](/components/button/#appearance) component has a new `outlined-light` appearance. This introduces opacity to the background color in a hover state and lightens the border color.

## Audio-player: Playback Rates

The [Audio-player](/audio-player/#playback-rates) has been extended to include the option of choosing different playback rates.

## Announcement Connotation

The announcement connotation has been added to [Badge](/components/badge/#connotation), [Button](/components/button/#connotation), and [Split-button](/components/split-button/#connotation).

## Combobox: Ghost Appearance

We have added the same `ghost` appearance to [Combobox](/components/combobox/#appearance) that is available in the text-field component.

## Number-field: Support For Locales That Use A Comma Separator

As part of our work to add German to our supported localisation locales, we identified that we needed to extend the [Number-field](/components/number-field/) component to support using a comma as a separator.
