---
title: May 2025
month: 2025-05
---

# May 2025 - Monthly Update

Here’s what’s new and improved in the Vivid Design System for May 2025.

## Office Hours Meetings

**13/05/2025**: [Watch the recording](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1uN9YBPuviRAPoArBJljxrxC-eTPGZuXJ/view)

- [Accordion Item]: Request for a slot to be added to the header to enable control of text formatting. [VIV-2636](https://jira.vonage.com/browse/VIV-2636)
- Typography Discussion: There is interest in giving teams more control over font sizes, particularly for headings and titles. We have an epic planned for Q3 where we will add to our Design Token architecture and the scope of this will include Typography. This will result in future updates to how typography tokens or utilities are exposed.
- [Data Grid]: Request for fixed columns functionality. [VIV-2645](https://jira.vonage.com/browse/VIV-2645)

**27/05/2025**: [Watch the recording](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1IXO1Oyu8f1rRLueD3gzIReajcy_79Mak/view)

- [Divider]: Request to change the color of the divider. And also provide a variant to enable an alternative color. [VIV-2684](https://jira.vonage.com/browse/VIV-2684)
- [Menu Item]: Request to update the styles to match the option component (rounded corners &amp; padding) [VIV-2686](https://jira.vonage.com/browse/VIV-2686)

## New Blog Posts

- [Why Staying Up to Date with Vivid Packages Matters](/whats-new/why-staying-up-to-date-with-vivid-packages-matters/)
- [The Evolution of the Vonage Design System: From Volta to Vivid](/whats-new/the-evolution-of-vonage's-design-system/)

## Icon: Added label Attribute for Accessible, Informative Icons

The Icon component now supports a [`label` attribute](/components/icon/code/#label) to improve accessibility for [informative (non-decorative) icons](/components/icon/accessibility/#informative-vs-decorative-icons). This provides a reliable way to convey meaning to assistive technologies.

This replaces our previous recommendation to use `aria-label`, which does not consistently work across all screen readers when applied to non-interactive elements like Icon.

## All Components: icon Attribute Deprecated in Favor of icon Slot

The `icon` attribute has been deprecated across all components that previously supported it. The recommended way to add an Icon to a component is via the `icon` slot.

Using the `icon` slot allows you to pass in an actual icon element, which can include an accessible `label` — making it possible to describe informative icons for screen reader users. This approach provides greater flexibility and improves accessibility.

## Searchable Select: Max Selected Enhancement

When Searchable Select is in multiple mode, it is now possible to set the [maximum amount of items](/components/searchable-select/#max-selected) the user can select.
The amounts (selected and maximum) are displayed to the user next to the label.

## Badge: Adds Size Variant

It is now possible to align the [size of the Badge component](/components/badge/#size) with the smallest Button variant. This is helpful for layouts where they are [aligned together horizontally](/components/badge/use-cases/#usage-with-buttons), eg. inside a Data Grid.

## Card: Clickable Card (Link or Button)

The [Card can now be made clickable](/components/card/code/#clickable-cards) as either a link or button.

## Radio Group: Adds helper-text and error-text Attributes

We have added [`helper-text`](/components/radio-group/#helper-text) and [`error-text`](/components/radio-group/#error-text) attributes to the Radio Group component bringing it in line with other form elements.

## Dial Pad: Adds focus Method and autofocus Property

We have added a [`focus()` method](/components/dial-pad/code/#methods) and an [`autofocus` property](/components/dial-pad/code/#properties) to the Dail Pad component.

## Empty State: icon-decoration is Deprecated

The `icon-decoration` prop is deprecated with the previous `outline` style which is now the default and only supported icon style. `icon-decoration` will be removed from the API in a future major release.

## Menu Item: control-type Replaces role Attribute

As part of our drive to improve accessibility we are decoupling our component API from raw HTML accessibility attributes (like `role` or `aria-*` attributes). To this end we have [introduced the `control-type` attribute](/components/menu-item/#control-type) to replace the `role` attribute which will be deprecated.
